the internet is full of reports articles
of blogs claiming that microwaves pose a
serious threat to our health if all
these stories are to be believed the
humble microwave is actually responsible
for damaging proteins poisoning us with
toxins and sucking all the nutrients out
of our food it all sounds pretty
sinister but what does this mean and is
any of you actually true well like most
conspiracy theories this one comes with
a tiny grain of truth mixed in with a
lot of misunderstanding and some pretty
dubious interpretations of what
microwaves actually do the aptly named
microwave oven uses microwave radiation
to heat food all that these microwaves
do is cause water molecules in the food
to vibrate generating heat that spreads
through the surrounding molecules now it
has been claimed that this damages
proteins and destroys nutrients in our
food but is any of this true or the
short answer is yes but that's not as
terrible or as unusual as it sounds
actually what happens in a microwave is
no different from what happens on a
stove heating by any method changes
proteins and nutrients in fact when you
boil vegetables in water you can lose
even more goodness because the nutrients
that were in the veg tend to end up in
the water which you then throw away so
if you want to cook in a way that best
preserves nutrients what you actually
need are shorter cooking times that
limit the exposure to heat and a cooking
method that uses as little water as
possible and when you look at it like
that a microwave is a good bet in fact
studies looking at vitamin C have shown
that levels in food can be higher after
microwave cooking than after boiling so
if you like using the microwave carrion
in some cases your food might actually
more nutritious
you